Mar 23 
Having agents dedicated to the various life pillars I have established.
Expanding an additional hero artifact - hero_future . A writing out of their ambitions for set period of times.


Long ramble related after working with a learning agent:
The main ambition of the project is to help the human establish their Aim for what they desire in the short, mid, and long term then do one's best to align what their intent is what they actually do. The data I have architecture for this point is: Hero_artifacts( This is collection of Json objects that I have started, and is not finished yet. They include the hero_ambition.json - this has the hero's guiding principals and about 9 pillars of intent related to having "a good life", hero_detriments.json - a small json with detriment items that the hero has established they should avoid, hero_origin.json - This has the users origin as arranged by epochs of time and important events. Something I started with the Jordan Peterson's self authoring. It has gaps  and will likely need several hours of writing to fufill ), Journal reflections( which is minimal at this point, but with time this artifact should be a collection of human reflections on the day as well as a collection of feedback provided by Agentic items ), and google calendar data.  The data from my google calendar is by far the largest for the project to date, and there are a number of issues. I use google calendar as much as a log of my activities as anything else. I have repeating weekly/daily events that give a gist of how some of that time is being used. But I don't always follow those guidelines perfectly so there are going to be inaccuracies. When I am really busy either with life or contract/full time work it will be empty, also when I am burned out from life I wont log events so there gaps. In the morning I am often find it useful to map out the time into chunks of my "intent" and do best to follow up with that. Though by the end of the day I will map out what I actually did.  Not sure if it useful but I included two pictures of the last two weeks that show typical usage., The first thing I want to build a solid foundation on is a Human and AI system that can map as many Actuals and Intents correctly so we can have the most robust data possible to us for a moment, and start establishing useful patterns of What did the human intend to do. What did they actually do? How do we improve both the human and AI such that What they actually do and what they intend do be the correct aim that is moving them forward in a good life. The secondary objective is right now it generally takes me seconds to do these event updates from google calendar how do we actually map events ( regressively) to a corresponding life pillar define in hero's ambition or hero's detriment such to further establish patterns of improvement. 



Extending from that. This is an open source project that I am doing on my own. Funds are limited. I need to be able to use as much info as I can established from the largest dataset. have that pattern meaningfully encoded into the agent for long term memory of a vector database and I migh need to flush the system? I pulled the last 3 months of google calendar data at the beginning of the month which was around 14k events and a storage size of 6mb in Mongodb. So I have been using this email since I was teenager, and I have been using the calendar function in some capacity since college. But using it as a true log began about 7 years ago. Could I truly store all the google calendar history in give or take 168mbs ? 



How would it best to intergrate a vector database? 

What is the balance of using neo4j ability to map connections? and to classify events correctly?

Proposed MongoDB Schema: The "Intent-Actual" Document
To make the Socratic Reflection Agent's job easy, you should store the Intent and Actual data in the same document. This allows for a single query to calculate the "Delta."
JSON
{
  "_id": "uuid_12345",
  "user_id": "hero_01",
  "time_slot": {
    "start": "2026-03-12T09:00:00Z",
    "end": "2026-03-12T10:45:00Z"
  },
  "intent": {
    "title": "Core Engineering",
    "pillar_id": "neo4j_node_dev_01",
    "expected_energy": 8,
    "is_recurring": true
  },
  "actual": {
    "title": "Derailment / Crisis Management",
    "category": "Valuable Detour",
    "energy_spent": 9,
    "notes": "Server went down, had to pivot from feature work.",
    "status": "Partial Match" 
  },
  "delta": {
    "alignment_score": 0.4,
    "unaccounted_minutes": 15
  },
  "metadata": {
    "source": "google_calendar",
    "last_sync": "2026-03-12T23:59:00Z"
  }
}


Why this works:
Atomicity: You update the actual field at the end of the day without touching the intent.
Indexing: You can index intent.pillar_id to quickly pull all "Professional Growth" events from the last 7 years.
Agent-Friendly: When the agent reads this, it sees the conflict immediately: "You intended Core Engineering, but ended in a Crisis."

Implementing the Time Series Collection
Using a dedicated Time Series Collection in MongoDB is a brilliant move for your "Track 1" analysis.
In MongoDB, you would set it up like this:
timeField: time_slot.start
metaField: intent.pillar_id (or event_type)

The Benefit: Normal collections are optimized for finding a single document. Time Series collections are optimized for sequences.
If you want to run a query like: "Calculate the average 'Alignment Score' for every Monday morning over the last 3 years," a Time Series collection will run this in milliseconds compared to seconds for a standard collection.
Cost Tip: You don't need to duplicate all the data. Store the "Heavy" data (notes, descriptions) in the standard collection and store the "Thin" data (timestamps, alignment scores, energy levels) in the Time Series collection.

Data Source | what goes here | Agentic Use case
mongoDB     | Raw calendar Json + times series | How many hours did I work last week
Neo4j       | Pillars, ambitions, Detriments, Project | which Life Pillar does 'Engineering 1" belong to?
Vector DB   | Embedding of Journal entries & meeting notes | "Remind me of the 'vibee' and insights from my last burnout period."
Step 4: Optimization & "Budget" Engineering
Now that we have the "Porter Stack" (Mongo + Neo4j + Vector) and the "Dual System Architecture" (CrewAI + LangChain), let's talk about how to keep your API costs from spiraling while processing 7 years of history.

1. Small Language Models (SLMs) for Classification
You don't need a massive model to tell you that "Dog walk" belongs to the "Health/Maintenance" pillar.

The Strategy: Use a local or cheaper model (like Llama 3 or a small Mistral model) for Initial Triage.

The Flow:

SLM: Categorizes 90% of routine tasks (Sleep, Meals, Repeating meetings).

Agentic Crew: Only gets triggered for the "Gaps" or complex "Delta" logic that the SLM flags as "Uncertain."

2. Summarization "Echelons"
To save on Vector DB storage and search costs, don't embed every single event individually for the long-term past.

Echelon 1 (Daily): Full event details (high resolution).

Echelon 2 (Weekly): A single "Weekly Recap" generated by the Inventory Curator Agent.

Echelon 3 (Monthly/Yearly): High-level "Hero Numbers" stored in the Mongo Time Series.

---
IVF allows you to cluster the data (e.g., clustering all "Professional Growth" vectors together). You only search the relevant clusters, and when combined with PQ (Product Quantization)—which compresses the vectors—you can fit significantly more "memory" into that 1GB constraint without a massive hit to accuracy.

Intergrating upgrading to include MongoDB Atlas Vector Search 
---
Your GTKY Agent (Getting To Know You) and Corrector_Porter are going to be your heaviest Vector DB users.
GTKY: Needs to find "semantic gaps." It will query the Vector DB for "What did the hero say about their 'Origin Story' that contradicts their 'Ambition'?"
Corrector_Porter: It can store a "Log of Hallucinations" as vectors. Before a new agent acts, the Corrector can check: "Is this plan similar to a mistake we made last Tuesday?"
How does that IVF recommendation sit with you, given that 1GB RAM "budget"? Also, since you mentioned the "Token Tax", would you like to discuss how to use the Vector DB to filter what actually gets sent to the Groq API so you aren't burning tokens on irrelevant calendar "noise"?


That idea for a Weekly Goal Artifact is brilliant. It bridges the gap between "Grand Vision" (Neo4j) and "Daily Chaos" (Calendar/Logs). It acts as a dynamic filter for your agents—basically telling them, "Hey, this week we are specifically prioritizing this pillar, so weigh these vectors more heavily."
The "Hero Cycle" Workflow:
Ingestion (The Sense):
Logistics Coordinator pulls data from Google Calendar and your Weekly Goal Artifact.
It sends raw text to MongoDB (Sensory Memory) and creates embeddings for the Vector DB (Intuitive Memory).
Contextual Retrieval (The Think):
First-Serving Porter receives a user query (e.g., "How did I do today?").
It queries the Vector DB for "vibe" context (past journals/moods).
It queries Neo4j for "logical" context (What are my 9 pillars? How does this task connect to my 5-year plan?).
Collaborative Reasoning (The Plan):
The First-Serving Porter triggers CrewAI sub-agents.
Inventory Curator checks the Delta.
Socratic Reflection Agent drafts a witty response based on the "Hero Numbers."
Verification (The Audit):
Corrector_Porter reviews the draft. It checks against the Vector DB to ensure it hasn't hallucinated a goal you never set.
Execution (The Act):
The response is sent to the Hub frontend.
Neo4j is updated with new "XP" nodes.
